just some images how do we imagine Soul
how imag
re one of my fav is uh what happens in
trees we are eating time the more time
we eat the more Soul we put
on
thater andg and bigger and we
have
we have these suggested natural
phenomenon where nature just kind of
builds and builds and spirals on
but images for Imagining the soul for
flowers and so when I'm with my students
I ask them to imagine that each one of
those pedals and each one of those
pistols and Stam is an entire life so
this each one of those pedals is 100
years each one of those little thousands
of statement in the center is a 100
years of
life and the soul is the beautiful
magnificent integration of all of that
experience into an identity that is
bigger than anyone but which honors
everyone and
just as there are many many different
types of flowers we're not all becoming
the same thing actually we're becoming
more and more different more and more
individualized we're cutting ourselves
we're we're developing ourselves in
different directions with different
attitudes we have to but we have to do
something to
imagine the soul that we are underneath
something large something magnificent
and something beautiful many of you have
seen Carl yung's mandalas and these
beautiful images that he would draw
those to me in some ways are like images
of the Soul they're not just images of
the state of of Mind of the present but
they're images of this deeper identity
that's moving
through so you ready to go to the next
topic I have one very basic
question where are all the as the
population increases where are they
coming from
yes I had that same
question
good I answer all of these questions in
life cycles because I I wrote life
cycles after I've been teaching this
stuff for 10 years and the students
pretty much asked every question that
you could possibly imagine I try to you
know give the answers there here's a way
of thinking of
it the the problem of the growth of the
human species and where those souls are
coming from is only a problem if we make
two assumptions one is that the number
of souls is limited is finite and that
they're really very small so in the
beginning there were maybe 60,000 human
beings on the
planet if we assume that there were only
60,000 souls and somehow we must be
dividing them or doing something to get
7 billion Souls but here's the different
way of thinking my University was at one
time we had about 3,000
students 50 years later we have 13,000
students if you never left campus you
saw the students coming and going
semester by semester and you would see
that there more and more students you
might be asking yourself where are they
coming from but of course they're coming
from the surrounding area because it's
just a much much bigger Community than
our than our campus likewise
uh we have no reason to think that
there're only a small number of souls
there could be trillions and trillions
of souls there could be Souls lined up
waiting to get into the classroom that
we're in right now they cannot get on
this planet until there's space
available for them to get in so every
semester there are some new freshmen and
there are some graduating seniors
there's a matriculation there's some
humans who are leaving and some humans
who are coming
but there are always more souls
available and who are eager to be part
of this
exercise Robert Monroe uh who I talk
about in dark night early Dawn my book
second book and we're not going to talk
too much about today but he's an
interesting man went out of his body
when he was 40 years old traveled over
the universe wrote three books
autobiographical books describing what
the what the world looks like from
someone who's been exploring it in the
out of body state
he
says every one of us is here because
somewhere in our travels in the
spiritual non-physical world we came
across a graduate of the Earth School
somebody who had gone through this
percum and we were so blown away by the
Beauty and the quality of their
energy that we track down how they got
that
way and we tracked them down to here and
we began the incarnational process so
that we could become like what we
saw so massive massive popul he says the
majority of intelligent life in the
universe is
non-physical the
majority is
non-physical do you have a question is
there hand up
here
yes um yeah I was for three p three ANW
and I was
wondering would there be any reason um I
you know I always said well Smokey you
know my mother like it Smokey
environment like I feel like I'm getting
out of here you knowth month kind but um
any reason why somebody would be going
preure and low birth weight I don't I
can't I don't know of any kind of
formulas it kind of gives us that I
think Reincarnation of course this
doesn't answer all our questions it just
gives us a new context within which we
can explore answers and once and we're
going once we get into the past lives
therapy where're we have a context in
which people have asked that question
why am I this way why did I why was I
born with this particular set of
circumstances and what we find is when
you actually go into the details of
their memory when you can help them
remember the choices that they made
before they incarnated there are reasons
there are reasons for everything What
that particular reason is behind that
particular thing I don't know but we
have context in which we can
explore
you yeah okay all the all the various
conditions why am I Born This Way why am
I in this family why am I in this
context why did I lose my legs in this
accident why there is a deeper context
but we have to get into the soul in
order to retrieve the memories that give
us the information we
need brother yeah why am I this
lucky first here and then here back here
okay this is probably I don't think this
is well could be about reincarnation but
years ago I heard a concept
um and the term called
Walkins people that come and they're um
they're from there coming to watch
us um and I don't know if it's to do
that or what but that has never left my
mind this was in a book group that I was
in years ago um and and I've never
forgotten that concept is it is it an
concept that's out there do we know of
this of these people or these Souls
called
Walkins the idea here is that um usually
the way to get here is to be born you
know you got to go through 9 months of
gestation and become you know go through
diapers and go through adolescence in
order to be an adult in some
instances we have some cases where it is
it seems as if the personality of a of a
person of a person a child or an adult
leaves and a different personality is
suddenly
there uh and this these are sometimes
called walk-ins that there's kind of a a
deal where they switch where someone
voluntarily leaves their Incarnation and
someone voluntarily takes over the body
so that they can be here without going
through the whole gestational
process um that's a complicated topic
some people are are skeptical about that
interpretation of the walk-in phenomenon
other people are uh more supportive of
this idea that you can have a step in or
a Walkin uh but the basic idea is that
there's kind of an exchange taking place
between Spiritual Beings and physical
beings or between embodied beings beings
and disembodied beings because if what
I'm saying is true we already are
Spiritual Beings right you don't become
a spiritual being when you die we are a
spiritual being with our body we are an
embodied spiritual being and then there
are disembodied Spiritual Beings so the
normal cycle is what we've been talking
about but maybe there's some variations
on U that interaction so it is phon then
you said the The Walking phenomena so
it's is that out there is that it is it
is out there and it is discussed and it
does come up in uh it's kind of a Minor
Threat but it does come up in in the
discussions thank
you um I was just going to ask just my
question reation I've believed in it for
and it has been popular in my church so
I kept very quiet always to myself but
the question I've always had in my head
was
when is it over are there completed
Souls so that you you know keep coming
back keep coming back and you learn more
and more more but are there every once
in a while I know what person you guys
that I think
myself that must be a complet soul but
I'm not true that that ever that's a
large question the classic way of things
see we only began we became
self-conscious about 35,000 years ago as
species right and it's about 5,000 years
ago that we began to develop the psycho
technology to to explore the Deep
unconscious to really explore the nature
of Mind itself and we began meditating
and we began
meditating four about 4,000 years ago
and when we began meditating we first
began to push deep into the psyche uh we
discovered the mother Universe we
discovered Brahman we discovered the
soul we discovered this beautiful
beautiful spiritual reality which is
gestated the physical world you know the
source of the big bang and when we
discovered it our first reaction was my
God this is magnificent this is
beautiful this feels so good this is
home this is where I want to be I want
to be in Myrtle Beach even though I like
golf I want to be here I want to be
there and so the religions that came
into existence about 3,000 years ago are
all variations on an up and out
cosmology so we want to achieve
breakthrough we want to go home so we
want to be good to achieve salvation so
we can go home we want to become
enlightened so we can achieve mocha so
we can go home so it's all kind of up
and out and then so if it's an up and
out then you have to what are the
criteria there must be some threshold
that we must pass pass in order that we
can get our ticket punched so we can get
out of
here I understand all those systems and
by the way Hinduism Buddhism
Christianity Islam uh Judaism all of
them fundamentally with a few variations
among the most spiritually sophisticated
elements all of them are up and out
cosmologies the purpose is to get up and
away that leaves a fundamental riddle
unsolved why the physical Universe
remember these pictures we were showing
before why the physical Universe why did
the Divine or whatever you want to think
of as this what was before the Big Bang
when everything was in that
reality why did that reality create the
Magnificent physical universe that we
are part
of up and out cosmologies leave that
unexplained it becomes avail of Tears it
becomes a challenge it becomes an
obstacle course but it doesn't really
explain what the Divine was thinking
when he created the physical Universe I
think the EP andot cosmologies are
simply the first stage of human
Discovery a more mature Discovery takes
place when we realize when we wake up
when we begin to realize that we are we
we come from this reality we are part of
this reality the physical world is an
expression of this reality the goal is
not simply to return the goal is to
integrate that reality and this reality
into conscious presence wherever we are
so the goal is to literally draw more of
spiritual the mother Universe into the
daughter Universe of that reality into
this reality so that these worlds become
more integrated so that eventually
Heaven is a state of awareness it's not
a place
you can be in heaven on Earth you can be
in heaven in the spiritual
world it's a state of awareness it's not
a
place once we
have a species which is able to have
more conscious and continuous and
unbroken Rapport between spiritual
reality and physical reality then the
evolutionary game changes and we move
into a new Direction but
we're going to be doing this for another
billion
years we're going to be doing it for
tens of billions of years right so it's
as I think when we die we we get to go
home we get to be renewed we get to be
rejuvenated we we we return to Source we
all these wonderful things that we're
about to look at
happen but the goal is not simply to get
away from it all the goal goal is to
become more to to become more completely
a more magnificent
manifestation of the creative process
itself so I am I'm distrustful of the
criteria which have been established for
up andal cosmologies to me that's just
Midway and and the most sophisticated
spiritual Traditions recognize that but
the the Western thinker who's actually
Hindu thinker who he really drove this
point home and underscore this very
powerfully in his teaching is Shri
arindo Shri arindo was very critical of
the epot cosmology and he said not it's
an incarnational theology what we need
is a an incarnational presence a greater
incarnational
presence
okay near-death episode research I bet
if there's if any of you have looked at
the literature for any of the four areas
we're talking about today today most of
you have probably looked at some of the
near-death episode literature isn't that
a magnificent literature I mean the
stories are just phenomenal here are my
four my three favorite books for going
into this literature and I've taught
this for years and we all know Raymond
Moody was the one who started it you
know and it got things going but one of
my great Heroes here is a man named Ken
ring uh he wrote his dissertation he was
at University of Connecticut a professor
in the psychology department uh he wrote
his dissertation his first book is
called life at death this is his second
book heading toward Omega and his third
book on it is lessons from the light
heading from heading toward Omega is a
little hard to find it's out of print
now you have to do a little digging in
the
libraries and lessons from the light is
still available and still in print Ken
is a a besides being just a deliciously
sweet human being he is a a very he's
one of the founders of near-death
episode the journal near-death episode
studies of what it was originally than
anology he's a good clinical uh
clinician he probably knows more about
near-death episode research than any
other single person alive today his he's
got file cabinets and file cabinets of
cases and he pres he lets the people
speak for themselves so chapter 3 in
heading toward Omega to me is one of the
most if there's a person who's really
suffering from Death in their life and
they're they've lost someone I'll rocks
chap the tree of heading toward Omega
and give it to them it's just a it's
13 accounts of people who have unusually
deep near-death
episodes and also in in lessons from the
light you're going to get all sorts of
research there this is the last book he
wrote uh there's a chapter towards the
end of it called returning to the
source uh and once again he's he he's
distilled people's case histories and he
he shares their case histories there's
also a chapter on near-death episodes of
The Blind because we find that some
people who had been blind from birth are
were blinded shortly after after they
were born when they have a near-death
episode they can
see and it that was a kind of an
anecdote that we couldn't document but K
he documented it and so he presents the
evidence for this and he also documents
the long-term changes in personality
structure that happens to people who
have unusually deep near death episodes
so he's been part of this second
generation of
Scholars we're not interested simply
that where whether this happens we now
know what happens we we've got millions
of people about 35% of the people who
nearly die have conscious recall of
their experience why is an indepth near
experience uh he differentiates five
stages of the nearth
experience and not everybody has the
same depth of experience you me know
some people may experience the first
stage is a feeling of peace
then there may be a stage of separation
from the physical body the tunnel kind
of
phenomenon um we go on to the
confrontation meeting of the being of
light so people for a variety of reasons
not everybody has the same deep
experience what Ken does in ping Tega is
he hypothesizes this he's asking the
question not whether near-death episodes
occur he's already written a book on
that he knows that they occur he's
asking the question what does it mean
what is the meaning of a n episode and
he hypothesizes that the most likely way
to understand the meaning of this event
is to study the people who have the
deepest form of the experience and he
calls these core and the ears they go
right to the core so it's not simply
people who have uh separation from their
body going into another reality meeting
the light the fifth stage is to go into
the light to actually merge with that
light and to go deeply into it this is
what he calls a core nde and that's
where I think where people have the
deepest um homecoming experience the
deepest experience and then they come
back out of that experience and those
are the people who are often the most
profoundly changed
by that experience and for the changes
you know he runs through list of changes
uh they're not only Changed by their
their values change they they they lose
all fear of death that's one of the most
widespread phenomen they lose all fear
of death they become disinterested in
material possessions you know that whole
consumer culture just kind of Falls away
it's just silly um they become more
compassionate they become more
spiritually attune but their physiology
actually has changed sometimes they
can't be around electrical appliances
and computers they can't wear the
digital watches lights blow out around
them so there's something about going in
back to sorus which seems to involve an
immersion into a higher form of energy
which changes people physiologically as
well as
psychologically okay so that he just
very carefully lays them out layer by
layer and he documents all the phenomena
that we're finding he documents them
piece by
piece let me can I can I
share the beauty of this is in the
people's own experiences uh so how about
if I just read for you one of the cases
that's in in Ken's
book this one is a case that comes from
U chapter 13 of lessons from the
light and do we have that yes we do have
that book in we have such a great book
store
awesome there's a woman named Virginia
rivers right and I'm going to jump to
the juicy parking she has the usual she
separates from her body and he explains
why she's having this episode and she's
traveling through the tunnel and she's
blowing through the universe and then
she comes to the end of this
journey and she she says galaxies are
flying by her the
sensation and she begins to receive
knowledge she says
quote the farther forward I was
propelled the more knowledge I received
my mind felt like a sponge growing in
expanding in size with each addition the
knowledge came in single words and in
whole idea blocks I just seem to be able
to understand everything as if it were
being soaked up or
absorbed I could feel my mind expanding
and absorbing and each new piece of
information somehow seemed to belong it
was as if I had known already but
forgotten or
mislead as if it were waiting here for
me to pick it up on my way
back you forget
you remember she goes on a Melody man
could not possibly have composed yet so
totally familiar and in complete harmony
with the very core of my being as if it
were the rhythm of my existence the
reason for my
being and then she encounters she goes
into the ecstatic state of great peace
great love she says love poured into me
from all the corners of the universe
and she eventually arrives at her end
destination and she what stands out for
her again is the experience of knowledge
she says all at once there was total and
absolute
awareness there was not a question I
could ask for which I did not already
have the
answer can you imagine that's I tell the
purpose of life is to get questions
because when you're with God you want to
be and you could have any answer to
anything you wanted to know what if you
have just cheap two bit
questions you want to have some good
questions stirred up imagine anything
you wanted to know you could
know I looked over to the presence she's
with this light presence I knew would be
there and thought God it was so simple
why didn't I know
that then she goes on
I'm skipping pieces it was God his love
his light his very essence the force of
creation emanating to the ends of all
eternity reaching out as a pulsing
Beacon of love to bring me home she puts
home in quotation
marks he told me many things of which I
have little or no recollection now I
remember only two things from all of
that Exchange
first God told me that there were only
two things we could bring back to it
with us when we
died love and
knowledge so I was to learn as much
about both as possible secondly God told
me I had to return I could not stay
there was something I had yet to
accomplish I remember knowing at that
moment what it was but I have no
recollection now
here's a little bit of a
paradox two things we can bring back
love and
knowledge however she's just made it
very clear when she died or she went
into a state of absolute knowledge so we
return to Absolute
knowledge but one of the things that God
wants us to do is bring back
knowledge what could we possibly
bringing back that would be that would
eat equal the knowledge is waiting for
us when we die you see that
Paradox that's a paradox really only if
we think that the purpose of life is to
go home is to
return that's not the purpose what if
the purpose is to bring more and more
knowledge into time and space so the
knowledge that we discover here we bring
back not to add to the knowledge that's
there but because we are integrating
here the knowledge which is freely
available there the purpose is to bring
more loving more knowledge here which we
bring back because we're sewing there
here into one
being well it's hard to talk about this
stuff and not feel like it's an up and
out cosmology because even the way
you're talking right now talks about
we're going out there to bring it back
here yeah when in fact like a mandala
yeah isn't it
flowing uh from and through us I mean we
look into ourselves and it's like
looking into an atom we expand back out
it's all happening here right yes okay
yes it's it's very hard to talk about it
without lapsing into those old habits so
we don't really bring something back
except in our memory right it's all we
we have access to it right now yes so
when we talk about bringing it back
we're bringing it back into memory or
into Consciousness right I think it's a
both end both end I think it's a both
end I I think
that explain this
um we don't really go anywhere when we
die butan if we were to die right here
in some sense we don't leave the room
but in another sense we leave the
room
so it was a a monk Abraham aan CLA an
augustinian monk in the 17th century who
said
U he who dies before he dies does not
die when he
dies those who die before they die do
not die when they die what does he mean
by that
if there's a sense in which there's
physical death and then there's
spiritual death if we go through the
spiritual death which is to say we drop
away the ego and we wake up to our
deeper spiritual knowing if we go
through the death rebirth process it
actually changes what happens to us when
we die and there is a it's more and more
clear that we're really not going
anywhere we're just shifting our
register shifting registration so so I
think the key is we're bringing more and
more of it here we're we're changing the
conditions we're we're changing the
conditions within which life takes place
but we're not really going anywhere so
in that sense we're not going anywhere
uh Robert Monroe says in going out of
his body in the early stages you kind of
have a sensation that you're traveling
you're going out but then later that
disappears he says you just kind of
think and you're there so it's not that
you're going somewhere where there is a
physical distance to travel you're
really just um you're opening up to a
depth of Consciousness where that
reality is here right here right now and
I think that speaks to what you're
saying it is all here it's all right now
but we just keep ourselves shielded from
it in some way so we're just taking down
barriers of our
mind it sounds like that that shape
the's it the
Taurus the Taurus goes out and you
expand out but but where you actually
are is back to the center yeah yeah we
keep bringing it all back into the into
the
center yes here and then here I lost my
father and the way that I understand
that or I think about that and I think
about him being with me still
is whenever a person walks out of a room
they leave behind there's something the
essence or whatever that they've left
behind that print that imprint that they
were there that's the way that I stay in
touch with my Dad
yeah yeah does that make that makes
sense it does and um this maybe allows
us to address something else my father
died about 45 years ago now according to
Stevenson's data he's he or his soul is
probably incarnated again and so one of
the questions my students asked me is I
really want to see my dad again I want
to see the BS I've Loved what if I die
and get up to heaven and they're already
incarnated they're not there
anymore just
left
Miss
so but actually a couple of things help
us understand this from a larger context
first of
all we don't incarnate all of our energy
in every Incarnation the large majority
of our Soul's
energy stays outside of time and space
even while part of it incarnates into
time and space so the way I would put it
for your father and my father
that their soul your father has now
returned to his soul so your father is
now very much living a Deeper Life a
larger life the life of the Soul even if
that Soul has sent out a distillation of
threads into and started a new
Incarnation when you
die you you meet your father's soul and
the face that your father's Soul wears
is the face that you are most familiar
with so where's the face of your father
but you are not just you right you are
beginning to be your soul so it may in
the first stage it may be like you
meeting your father or me meeting my
father but very quickly it's your soul
connecting reconnecting with his soul
and that's a different that's a bigger
Enterprise a larger Enterprise so that
your father leaves a trace all of our
love ones leave a trace in us and on the
Earth but they are living presence they
continue to be a living presence in this
larger world that we encounter when we
die so and and we're going to see
Michael Newton is very clear we only
incarnate a fraction of our at this
present time a fraction of our Soul's
energy and we choose how much of our
energy of the Soul we incarnate into our
present body he says if we incarnate our
entire soul and our present body we
short would blow all the circuits of our
brain we couldn't handle the energy and
that's why I think we picture great
Saints and sages like with this light
coming off of them because literally
they are carrying more energy than an
ordinary
person here and then here I'm trying to
wrap my brain around this but it sounds
like you're talking about a process
where there is a God who through this
process of expans expansion and
contraction is
actually making the souls all more like
God it's like this expansion a bigger
expansion and contraction that's kind of
so that we do bring Heaven on Earth in a
new realm or new place or whatever and
then would go from there
yeah we're going to see when we get a
little bit further along m
newon
um if you ask where does a soul come
from where do Souls come from and the
answer seems to be the soul is actually
kind of teased out of God the soul is is
it's like the sun's throwing out silver
flares and the soul is kind of the
essence of the Divine is is teased out
and it's actually incubated very
carefully there are beings whose sole
job it is to catch and nourish that
energy and to and to birth it help it
birth into self-awareness that it it
starts with the Divine but it's birth as
an individual
self-awareness but it's pure potential
it's un actualized potential and then
the system seems to be set up so that
that
self-awareness begins a journey of
self-actualization so it has all the
potential of the
Divine but it's kind of like in
potential not in in actualization and
it's actualized more and
more and it it's almost as if this
isn't quite the Right image but it's
kind of like God is cloning
herself and God is just throwing out
stars and each one of us is is that the
ancient Greek theologians called it
logos spermaticus you know the the seeds
of the logos the seeds of the Divine and
we're incubating that seed potential
into deeper and deeper actualizations
sooner or later we develop enough that
we remember who we are we remember that
our Essence is the Divine and the
essence of everything and every person
we see around us is also of the Divine
holy smokes we're all part of the Divine
we're all differentiating and more and
more and it's all taking place inside
the Divine so the the classic phrase
is from God to God always in God so we
come from God we go back to God where
are we now we're in God we never leave
we never left except in our lack of
understanding so we are becoming more
and more in some sense what we were in
the beginning but not exactly because we
haven't actualized it yet we haven't
brought it into full conscious
expression and there's another one other
last thing I want to mention is that
um we're going to I'm going to get to
Newton soon we'll probably do that after
lunch but Newton's
people very clearly suggest that the God
of this
universe is not necessarily the ultimate
God they talk about God's grandfather
this system this entire physical
Universe which we measure in light years
which is 6 million million miles is one
light year you measure the universe in a
yard stick of 6 million million miles
and thousands millions of light years
across billions of light years across
this entire universe is not the only
Universe there are other universes there
are many universes and there is kind of
a
a being who is the generator and
responsible for each universe and none
of those beings are the ultimate
ultimate
being okay that kind of that
that'll getting ahead of myself but when
people who when people remember what
they were doing before they were born
they they
experience divine presence like people
who have near-death episodes but they
don't they don't draw the conclusion
they don't use the god the concept of
God to describe
it their vision is that the the concept
of God that we are born with and we kind
of work with in our churches is so
inadequate to describe the reality that
they don't want to use that language to
describe the reality that they're
confronting and that this reality which
is magnificent beyond measure as we saw
from Virginia's experience that reality
is not necessarily the end
reality it's just the Magnificent
reality this the generative intelligence
of this
system so all of a sudden we kind of
whoa we're in a bigger Universe than we
imagin question is are we
safe what's going on are We Are we part
of an intelligent meaningful exercise or
are we lost on this chaos and I think
we're getting more clearly this the
awareness that uh we are safe first of
all there's nothing that can ever happen
to us that will truly end our life
extinguish life we're not Hell by the
way just disappears out of the system
the concept of hell is is primitive
Beyond measure um and uh we're doing
something that's creative and immensely
satisfying in the long term it may hurt
and pinch in the short term but it's
taking us if we're going someplace we're
going into a a developmental process
that's just profoundly satisfying at its
heart and that's I think that's more
important for us and to know the
ultimate ultimate ultim
is to to believe that this is a
meaningful worthwhile exercise that we
are part
of here and then back here could that be
why we come back with knowledge so that
we start at a higher level than we left
you know or at not starting all the way
at the beginning again so we come back
with this knowledge so that we can go
further or perhaps bring back our
knowledge with others I think so and as
long as we keep a a flexible Vision uh
like in college we may have a student
who decides to major in math and takes
mathematics courses for several
semesters and get really h a develops a
good ability in math and then says well
I think I'm going to drop that I'm going
to start being an artist I'm going to
try art for a while now they may be a
beginner artist but that doesn't mean
they're a beginner student they're just
beginning a new set of skills so you
really can never it's always a mistake
to think that any level of proficiency
in one set of skills is a reliable
barometer of the measure of the soul
that you're dealing with because
somebody can look like a beginner when
they're not a beginner at the soul level
they're just a beginner in a particular
discipline right if it's this is your
first time to learn
whatever you'll look like a beginner but
you may not be a
beginner sooner or later all of those
skills I think will be integrated into
one conscious presence but the whole
system is we work in stages we're
working in stages just one bit at a
time last question before I'm going to
read you one more near death episode
there was a question here somebody had
their hand up yeah
um it's part part of our Development
I've noticed that if you read books like
from I like to read old BS in the 40s
and 50s and even before about what
you're talking about now remember
there's a book called The unobstructed
Universe And I think it was done in the
40s or 50s and it was so hard to
understand I mean I I knew there were
like little
glimmers um really good stuff in there
but it was so the person expressing it
it was so hard they had such trouble
Express expressing it and writing it was
so hard to understand but now like the
way you things it's just like in those
few years the ability to even express it
has gone by Le yeah and I think the more
people understand a particular idea it
actually the collective psyche is also
understanding that idea and when enough
people understand the idea then it makes
it easier for the next human being to
understand that idea so it gets easier
and easier and and people who do past
lives therapy like Wier Lucas told me
when they were first doing hypnotic
regression in past life therapy you had
to take people into very very deep
stages of Trance before you could get to
the level where they could remember
their previous lives but over the
following years and decades they found
that they they didn't have to go so deep
it was like it was getting easier and
easier to access those memories now from
uh moric field Theory you know from
Rupert shelter's Edition the more people
people acquire a particular capacity
they not only acquire it as an
individual but the species is acquiring
it so if remembering our farmer lives is
a capacity the first people who
remembered their previous lives they may
have to go very very hard or very very
deep but it gets easier the more people
do it the easier it gets so always we
are always standing on the shoulders of
the men and women who went before and we
are then becoming the shoulders that our
children and grandchildren will stand on
and isn't it exciting to think going
Unity 200 years from now but when you
think about it they will be us right
yes
yeah let me read you one more near death
episode here before we leave it please
these things are just so
beautiful this comes from heading toward
Omega and it's the experience of a woman
named Carol Parish
Hannah
Herold and she usual I'm going to skip
the early part you know she's traveling
through the universe of tunnel of light
and then she gets to she gets to the
culmination part she says by my side
there was a being with a Magnificent
Presence I could not see an exact form
but instead a radiation of light that
lit up everything about me and spoke
with a voice that held the deepest
tenderness one can ever
imagine as this loving yet powerful
being spoke to me I understood vast
meanings much beyond my ability to
explain I understood life and death
and instantly any fear I had
ended there was a totality a
completeness in the realization that I
could continue to experience and that
there was absolutely no reason to
continue my frantic struggle to
exist for what seemed to be endless time
I experiened this presence this light
being pure powerful all expans was
without a form and it could be said that
great waves of awareness flowed into me
and into my
mind as I responded to these Revelations
I knew them to be so of course it didn't
matter if one lived or di it was also
clear there was a complete trust and
greater understanding of what these
words
meant it seemed whole truths reveal
themselves to me me ways of thought
ideas greater and pure than I have ever
tried to figure out came to me thoughts
clear and without effort reveal
themselves in total wholeness although
not in logical
sequence I of course being in that
Magnificent Presence understood it all I
realized that Consciousness is life we
will live in and through much but this
Consciousness we know that is behind our
personality will continue I knew that
the purpose of life does not depend on
me it has its own purpose I realize that
the flow of it will continue even as I
will continue new Serenity entered my
being as this occurred an intensity of
feeling rushed through me as if that
light that's as if the light that
surrounded that being was bathing me
penetrating every part of me
as I absorb the energy I sense what I
can only describe as
Bliss that is such a little word but the
feeling was Dynamic rolling magnificent
expanding ecstatic
Bliss it Whirled through me around me
and entering my chest flowed through me
and I was immersed in love and awareness
for ineffable
P that's the kind of thing we can read
to our beloveds when they're in their
passing time it's so what a
gift to be afraid of
dying is to have everything turned
upside
down dying I I tell my kids all the time
it's a great life and at the end you get
to
die there are cultures that mourn birth
you know because birth is when the work
begins birth is when you begin class the
session has begun dying is returning
home dying is graduation dying is recess
is come
again
Joy I I I usually don't share this and
certainly didn't 30 years ago if you
would understand this but 30 years ago I
almost died and um I had the um
near death experience and um and and I
went through those stages of calm and
everything and I went up to the to the
um ceiling looking down at my body which
was in Soom much pain everybody working
on me down there you know and the calm
and the everything that was there and
the light was behind
me I didn't get to go through the light
and I remember and I felt bad about it
ever since I I was so and I had two
small children there's certainly a
reason for me to stay on this Earth but
what I was feeling at that time was so
wonderful and the light was behind me I
wasn't going toward the light but it was
pulling me and all of a sudden bam I was
right back in my body with all of that
pain and everything I was so
angry so bad ever since about that
because I certainly came back with um a
whole new concept and even energy
spiritual you know but still I remember
being I was ready to go I mean it was it
was even with children there even with
all our never it never entered my mind
when I was there though it wasn't like
oh I have a responsibility I need to go
back there was nothing of that it was
like complete Serenity complete Bliss
and I was going home yeah and then all
of a sudden I was back in that body I
just that's the first thing I remember
just being because I inv and shock and I
just remember being angry that I was and
that and other people would have shared
that experience just cuz people when
they come back sometimes they're angry
they get angry at the doctors why why
did you bring me back and it takes them
a long time sometime to adjust to life
back on Earth because once you touch
Infinity I mean really who wants to be
in
youngone before you were born you were
in that ecstatic space you were in
ecstasy you were in the light you were
with the Divine you were in your
soul all the joy that pulls you so
instinctively there you were
there and then you made a series of
choices where you voluntarily left it in
order to come here and that's my baby's
cry there must have been some great
purpose for you to come here to leave
that to leave that Joy there must be
great purpose that draws us to hear and
some some Mystics Juliana of narch you
know she's a 16th century I think
Catholic saint uh wonderful woman she
had a vision on her deathbed she had a
near-death experience and she spent the
rest of her life meditating on this
vision and uh and she unpacked it in
this book that eventually called
Revelations of love divine love and she
says
she says she rejected the concept of
original sin she said that's just not
true God is not angry of us and we're
not sinful we're not bad she says uh God
asks us to
come and God knew we were going to it's
like you send out your beloved Son on a
journey or your daughter and they're
going to they fall into a ditch and they
get stuck in the bottom of the ditch and
they can't get out and God knew we were
going to get stuck we knew knew we were
going to forget we knew we were going to
get stupid we knew we were going the
malls were going to be our favorite
places to
go but we love God so much we went where
she asked us to go and when we when we
die we remember why when we die we touch
back into the foundation and we are
restored we
debrief but then sooner or later it's
time to come into it again it's time to
grow because we're constantly learning
and expanding and becoming more and the
reason we're learning and expanding and
becoming more is because our nature is
God and this is what God is doing Weir
this is part of the fabric of
existence yes it's amazing to me that we
can have these exp I had a near death
experience years ago it did change my
life what's so amazing to me is that we
can have these miraculous
experiences and I've also had
experiences in meditation that are very
similar to some of these so you have
these Miracles and then two days later
you're pissed off in the traic
J no wonder we forget whole lifetime I
just
amazed that you can have this miraculous
understanding and know that there's
nothing to be afraid of and then run
home and lock your doors that's that
stupid
thinging time and space is tricky isn't
it I mean it's really it's so dense here
it it's incredibly dense and it kind of
the veil comes down and we feel like
we're you know we're trapped again we're
involved in things
and a weightlifter becomes Strong by
putting more weight on the bar the
weight lifter doesn't complain about the
weight in the bar because the weight
them develop the muscles time and space
is the weight on the bar it it it's
allowing us to develop muscles faster
than we would develop if we stayed in
heaven so but it's hard it's hard being
here It's Tricky being here there's more
ways kind of we feel like there's more
ways to go wrong than there are to go
right it's challenging to go here home
thank God for Unity thank God there's a
place where people can go and put these
pieces together and and find their way
back this deep sanity which allows them
to live not only with a measure of
dignity but to with enthusiasm to
actually consciously embrace the
challenge of Being Human Instead of
feeling like you're being punished or
you're exiled or this all this nonsense
we're exiled from Paradise no I mean you
can understand where that came from but
no that's just not right I mean you know
it's like God is right here God wouldn't
send us here the goddess wouldn't send
us here without giving us all the means
available to make it
work now it's time to to take a break
for
lunch first but
first before we go down before we go
downstairs for this incredible lunch
that Miss Charlene has put together for
us some of you are clamoring for us to
receive the
donations and if you're Mak